Best practices/GraphQL/Testing.md, before:

# GraphQL Testing

This guide covers strategies for testing GraphQL-connected applications. It does not cover testing GraphQL APIs themselves. For the purposes of this guide, we will often use React examples to illustrate best practices, but these recommendations should apply to all client-side uses of GraphQL.

## Table of contents

1. [Strategy](#strategy)
1. [Test infrastructure](#test-infrastructure)
1. [Mock data](#mock-data)
1. [Anti-patterns](#anti-patterns)

## Strategy

There are two general approaches you could use to test GraphQL:

1. Mocking out the connection our components have to the GraphQL part of the app and directly injecting GraphQL responses into our components
1. Mocking out only the GraphQL responses and leaving the GraphQL connections in place

There are pros and cons to both approaches. The first is more in line with how we test other parts of the app; as noted in our [React testing guide](../React/Testing.md), we generally mock out children components and manually trigger their properties as a way of forcing strict isolation between components. This approach works best when the process being mocked is simple.

In the case of GraphQL, the process is generally more complex. There are many different states that the GraphQL infrastructure manages, and there are often side effects that are important to verify, like updating the cache in response to a mutation. There are also many different ways of connecting to GraphQL; in the case of Apollo, our [preferred GraphQL client](../../Decision%20records/02%20-%20Use%20Apollo%20as%20our%20GraphQL%20client.md), there are decorators, `Query`/ `Mutation` components, and direct uses of the Apollo client.

We favor the second approach noted above: mocking out GraphQL responses, but leaving the infrastructure for connecting to GraphQL un-mocked.

## Test infrastructure

In order to implement the recommendation above, you will need a way of injecting fake GraphQL responses into your application. We have a package that makes this easy to achieve for applications using Apollo: [`@shopify/jest-mock-apollo`](https://github.com/Shopify/quilt/tree/master/packages/jest-mock-apollo). This package exposes a function for creating mock GraphQL clients that support hardcoded responses. Most developers will use this package to expose a GraphQL client creator function from the `tests/utilities` directory, allowing all parts of the app to easily import it:

```ts
// in tests/utilities.tsx
import createGraphQLClientFactory from '@shopify/jest-mock-apollo';

// Import and create your schema. Sewing Kit will automatically
// download a version of the schema you have configured in to
// a /build directory.
let schema;
export const createGraphQLClient = createGraphQLClientFactory({schema});

// in some test file
import {createGraphQLClient} from 'tests/utilities';

const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({
  OperationName: new Error('something went wrong'),
  AnotherOperation: {someField: 'value'},
});
```

We recommend that you create a GraphQL client for *each* test to avoid any state leaking between tests. It’s useful to have a custom `mount` that accepts the GraphQL client as an option, and then injects it into the component being tested:

```tsx
// in tests/utilities.tsx
import {mount as originalMount} from 'enzyme;
import {ApolloProvider} from 'react-apollo';

interface Options {
  graphQLClient?: ReturnType<typeof createGraphQLClient>;
}

export function mount(
  element: React.ReactElement<any>,
  {graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient()}
) {
  return originalMount(
    <ApolloProvider client={graphQLClient}>
      {element}
    </ApolloProvider>,
  );
}

// in some test file
import {mount, createGraphQLClient} from 'tests/utilities';

describe('<MyComponent />', () => {
  it('renders an empty state when there is no product', async () => {
    const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({
      Product: {product: null},
    });
    const myComponent = mount(<MyComponent />, {graphQLClient});
    await Promise.all(graphQLClient.graphQLResults);
    expect(myComponent).toContainReact(<EmptyState />);
  });

  it('renders the ID of a product when it exists', async () => {
    const id = '123';
    const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({
      Product: {product: {id}},
    });
    const myComponent = mount(<MyComponent />, {graphQLClient});
    await Promise.all(graphQLClient.graphQLResults);
    expect(myComponent).toContainText(id);
  });
});
```

The custom mount function can be useful in other ways; you can make it asynchronous and automatically resolve all the initial GraphQL, or you can accept additional arguments for things like a mock router.

## Mock data

The next step to testing GraphQL is to provide suitable example data for your test. As noted in our [decision record on the topic](../../Decision%20records/07%20-%20We%20use%20factories%20instead%20of%20fixtures%20for%20GraphQL%20tests.md), we prefer factories over fixtures for supplying this data. We provide a package that can do this with type safety, [`graphql-fixtures`](https://github.com/Shopify/graphql-tools-web/tree/master/packages/graphql-fixtures). Once this package is initialized with your schema, it can take a query or mutation and, optionally, a subset of the data, and will fill out the rest of the query with appropriate data.

```ts
// As with the GraphQL client factory detailed above,
// we recommend exposing the `fillGraphQL` function
// from a central test utilities directory.
import {createFiller} from 'graphql-fixtures';
const fillGraphQL = createFiller(schema);

// in a test file
const fillSomeQuery = fillGraphQL(someQuery, {partial: 'data'});
```

This model for filling in data lets you specify only a subset of data that is relevant for the case under test. This lets more other developers add fields to the query without updating every test, focuses the reader on the information that is relevant for the case being tested, and enables more tailored data for each test. It illustrates our preference for [isolation over integration](../../Principles/4%20-%20Isolation%20over%20integration), and for [tests working well in isolation](../Testing#tests-should-work-and-be-useful-in-isolation).

There are a few things you should keep in mind when using this kind of data factory:

* Only fill the smallest subset of data you actually need for the case being tested.

* Do not share a fixture directly between tests. It encourages the exact same anti-pattern as fixture files: merging everything needed by every test into one object. Where you need a common set of data between fixtures, use a function that calls `fillGraphQL`:

  ```ts
  // When importing a GraphQL file, Sewing Kit will automatically
  // generate a "smart" deep partial version of the data, which
  // can be used as a type for this kind of function.
  import myQuery, {MyQueryPartialData} from '../graphql/MyQuery.graphql';

  function fillMyQuery(partial: MyQueryPartialData = {}) {
    return fillGraphQL(myQuery, {
      ...partial,
      field: {
        ...partial.field,
        shared: 'value',
      },
    });
  }
  ```

* When you have a part of the query that needs to be filled out the same for many tests, use the same pattern as above to remove the shared bits. This refocuses the individual tests on the data that is actually relevant for that case. This is usually needed when there is a guarantee on the data that can't be codified in the type system. For example, we may provide a default filler that always provides at least one variant for a filled `product` response.

* Do not reference data off of the filled fixture. Instead, store the values you care about separately from the fixture and reference those in your assertions.

  ```ts
  // bad
  // (graphql-fixtures makes this fairly awkward, because the
  // return value is actually another factory function, not your
  // data)
  const fillMyQuery = fillGraphQL(myQuery);
  const data = fillMyQuery({query: myQuery});
  const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({MyQuery: data});
  const myComponent = mount(<MyComponent />, {graphQLClient});
  expect(myComponent).toContainText(data.product.id);

  // good
  const id = composeGid('Product', 123);
  const fillMyQuery = fillGraphQL(myQuery, {product: {id}});
  const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({MyQuery: fillMyQuery});
  const myComponent = mount(<MyComponent />, {graphQLClient});
  expect(myComponent).toContainText(id);
  ```

### Mocking multiple operations

Occasionally, tests need to simulate multiple queries for the same operation. This is commonly needed when paginating, where the component will update the variables of the GraphQL query to pull in more data. For these cases, `fillGraphQL` accepts a function as its second argument. This function is called with the GraphQL operation, which gives you access to the variables. With this information in hand, you can tailor the partial you provide based on the variables:

```ts
const products = createBasicProducts(60);
const firstProducts = products.slice(0, 50);
const secondProducts = products.slice(50);

const fillMyQuery = fillGraphQL(myQuery, ({variables: {after}}) => {
  // When after is null, we are still on the first page
  return after == null ? firstProducts : secondProducts;
});

const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({MyQuery: fillMyQuery});
```

## Anti-patterns

A few common approaches are generally considered anti-patterns based on the recommendations above:

* Mocking out any part of the GraphQL stack:

  ```ts
  // Here, we are mocking out Apollo's GraphQL decorator with one that
  // just returns the component without any decoration, usually in order
  // to manually pass data directly to the component in test.
  jest.mock('react-apollo', () => ({
    graphql() { return (Component) => Component; } 
  }));
  ```

* Exporting an "undecorated" version of the component alongside the decorated one so we can test the underlying component directly:

  > Note: this also violates a core principle of testing: we should not be changing our API just our tests.

  ```tsx
  // MyComponent.tsx
  export function MyComponent({data}) {
    return data.loading ? <div>loading</div> : null;
  }

  export default graphql(myQuery)(MyComponent);

  // MyComponent.test.tsx
  import {MyComponent} from '../MyComponent';

  const myComponent = <MyComponent data={{loading: true}} />;
  ```

Commit message:

Improve consistency of packages/ ToC

Best practices/GraphQL/Testing.md, after:

# GraphQL Testing

This guide covers strategies for testing GraphQL-connected applications. It does not cover testing GraphQL APIs themselves. For the purposes of this guide, we will often use React examples to illustrate best practices, but these recommendations should apply to all client-side uses of GraphQL.

## Table of contents

1. [Complementary packages](#complementary-packages)
1. [Strategy](#strategy)
1. [Test infrastructure](#test-infrastructure)
1. [Mock data](#mock-data)
1. [Anti-patterns](#anti-patterns)

## Complementary packages

* [@shopify/graphql-testing](https://github.com/Shopify/quilt/blob/master/packages/jest-mock-apollo/README.md): a mock Apollo client that supports arbitrary fixtures in response to GraphQL operations
* [graphql-fixtures](https://github.com/Shopify/graphql-tools-web/tree/master/packages/graphql-fixtures): type-safe, randomly generated fixtures that match the shape of GraphQL documents

## Strategy

There are two general approaches you could use to test GraphQL:

1. Mocking out the connection our components have to the GraphQL part of the app and directly injecting GraphQL responses into our components
1. Mocking out only the GraphQL responses and leaving the GraphQL connections in place

There are pros and cons to both approaches. The first is more in line with how we test other parts of the app; as noted in our [React testing guide](../React/Testing.md), we generally mock out children components and manually trigger their properties as a way of forcing strict isolation between components. This approach works best when the process being mocked is simple.

In the case of GraphQL, the process is generally more complex. There are many different states that the GraphQL infrastructure manages, and there are often side effects that are important to verify, like updating the cache in response to a mutation. There are also many different ways of connecting to GraphQL; in the case of Apollo, our [preferred GraphQL client](../../Decision%20records/02%20-%20Use%20Apollo%20as%20our%20GraphQL%20client.md), there are decorators, `Query`/ `Mutation` components, and direct uses of the Apollo client.

We favor the second approach noted above: mocking out GraphQL responses, but leaving the infrastructure for connecting to GraphQL un-mocked.

## Test infrastructure

In order to implement the recommendation above, you will need a way of injecting fake GraphQL responses into your application. We have a package that makes this easy to achieve for applications using Apollo: [`@shopify/jest-mock-apollo`](https://github.com/Shopify/quilt/tree/master/packages/jest-mock-apollo). This package exposes a function for creating mock GraphQL clients that support hardcoded responses. Most developers will use this package to expose a GraphQL client creator function from the `tests/utilities` directory, allowing all parts of the app to easily import it:

```ts
// in tests/utilities.tsx
import createGraphQLClientFactory from '@shopify/jest-mock-apollo';

// Import and create your schema. Sewing Kit will automatically
// download a version of the schema you have configured in to
// a /build directory.
let schema;
export const createGraphQLClient = createGraphQLClientFactory({schema});

// in some test file
import {createGraphQLClient} from 'tests/utilities';

const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({
  OperationName: new Error('something went wrong'),
  AnotherOperation: {someField: 'value'},
});
```

We recommend that you create a GraphQL client for *each* test to avoid any state leaking between tests. It’s useful to have a custom `mount` that accepts the GraphQL client as an option, and then injects it into the component being tested:

```tsx
// in tests/utilities.tsx
import {mount as originalMount} from 'enzyme;
import {ApolloProvider} from 'react-apollo';

interface Options {
  graphQLClient?: ReturnType<typeof createGraphQLClient>;
}

export function mount(
  element: React.ReactElement<any>,
  {graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient()}
) {
  return originalMount(
    <ApolloProvider client={graphQLClient}>
      {element}
    </ApolloProvider>,
  );
}

// in some test file
import {mount, createGraphQLClient} from 'tests/utilities';

describe('<MyComponent />', () => {
  it('renders an empty state when there is no product', async () => {
    const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({
      Product: {product: null},
    });
    const myComponent = mount(<MyComponent />, {graphQLClient});
    await Promise.all(graphQLClient.graphQLResults);
    expect(myComponent).toContainReact(<EmptyState />);
  });

  it('renders the ID of a product when it exists', async () => {
    const id = '123';
    const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({
      Product: {product: {id}},
    });
    const myComponent = mount(<MyComponent />, {graphQLClient});
    await Promise.all(graphQLClient.graphQLResults);
    expect(myComponent).toContainText(id);
  });
});
```

The custom mount function can be useful in other ways; you can make it asynchronous and automatically resolve all the initial GraphQL, or you can accept additional arguments for things like a mock router.

## Mock data

The next step to testing GraphQL is to provide suitable example data for your test. As noted in our [decision record on the topic](../../Decision%20records/07%20-%20We%20use%20factories%20instead%20of%20fixtures%20for%20GraphQL%20tests.md), we prefer factories over fixtures for supplying this data. We provide a package that can do this with type safety, [`graphql-fixtures`](https://github.com/Shopify/graphql-tools-web/tree/master/packages/graphql-fixtures). Once this package is initialized with your schema, it can take a query or mutation and, optionally, a subset of the data, and will fill out the rest of the query with appropriate data.

```ts
// As with the GraphQL client factory detailed above,
// we recommend exposing the `fillGraphQL` function
// from a central test utilities directory.
import {createFiller} from 'graphql-fixtures';
const fillGraphQL = createFiller(schema);

// in a test file
const fillSomeQuery = fillGraphQL(someQuery, {partial: 'data'});
```

This model for filling in data lets you specify only a subset of data that is relevant for the case under test. This lets more other developers add fields to the query without updating every test, focuses the reader on the information that is relevant for the case being tested, and enables more tailored data for each test. It illustrates our preference for [isolation over integration](../../Principles/4%20-%20Isolation%20over%20integration), and for [tests working well in isolation](../Testing#tests-should-work-and-be-useful-in-isolation).

There are a few things you should keep in mind when using this kind of data factory:

* Only fill the smallest subset of data you actually need for the case being tested.

* Do not share a fixture directly between tests. It encourages the exact same anti-pattern as fixture files: merging everything needed by every test into one object. Where you need a common set of data between fixtures, use a function that calls `fillGraphQL`:

  ```ts
  // When importing a GraphQL file, Sewing Kit will automatically
  // generate a "smart" deep partial version of the data, which
  // can be used as a type for this kind of function.
  import myQuery, {MyQueryPartialData} from '../graphql/MyQuery.graphql';

  function fillMyQuery(partial: MyQueryPartialData = {}) {
    return fillGraphQL(myQuery, {
      ...partial,
      field: {
        ...partial.field,
        shared: 'value',
      },
    });
  }
  ```

* When you have a part of the query that needs to be filled out the same for many tests, use the same pattern as above to remove the shared bits. This refocuses the individual tests on the data that is actually relevant for that case. This is usually needed when there is a guarantee on the data that can't be codified in the type system. For example, we may provide a default filler that always provides at least one variant for a filled `product` response.

* Do not reference data off of the filled fixture. Instead, store the values you care about separately from the fixture and reference those in your assertions.

  ```ts
  // bad
  // (graphql-fixtures makes this fairly awkward, because the
  // return value is actually another factory function, not your
  // data)
  const fillMyQuery = fillGraphQL(myQuery);
  const data = fillMyQuery({query: myQuery});
  const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({MyQuery: data});
  const myComponent = mount(<MyComponent />, {graphQLClient});
  expect(myComponent).toContainText(data.product.id);

  // good
  const id = composeGid('Product', 123);
  const fillMyQuery = fillGraphQL(myQuery, {product: {id}});
  const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({MyQuery: fillMyQuery});
  const myComponent = mount(<MyComponent />, {graphQLClient});
  expect(myComponent).toContainText(id);
  ```

### Mocking multiple operations

Occasionally, tests need to simulate multiple queries for the same operation. This is commonly needed when paginating, where the component will update the variables of the GraphQL query to pull in more data. For these cases, `fillGraphQL` accepts a function as its second argument. This function is called with the GraphQL operation, which gives you access to the variables. With this information in hand, you can tailor the partial you provide based on the variables:

```ts
const products = createBasicProducts(60);
const firstProducts = products.slice(0, 50);
const secondProducts = products.slice(50);

const fillMyQuery = fillGraphQL(myQuery, ({variables: {after}}) => {
  // When after is null, we are still on the first page
  return after == null ? firstProducts : secondProducts;
});

const graphQLClient = createGraphQLClient({MyQuery: fillMyQuery});
```

## Anti-patterns

A few common approaches are generally considered anti-patterns based on the recommendations above:

* Mocking out any part of the GraphQL stack:

  ```ts
  // Here, we are mocking out Apollo's GraphQL decorator with one that
  // just returns the component without any decoration, usually in order
  // to manually pass data directly to the component in test.
  jest.mock('react-apollo', () => ({
    graphql() { return (Component) => Component; } 
  }));
  ```

* Exporting an "undecorated" version of the component alongside the decorated one so we can test the underlying component directly:

  > Note: this also violates a core principle of testing: we should not be changing our API just our tests.

  ```tsx
  // MyComponent.tsx
  export function MyComponent({data}) {
    return data.loading ? <div>loading</div> : null;
  }

  export default graphql(myQuery)(MyComponent);

  // MyComponent.test.tsx
  import {MyComponent} from '../MyComponent';

  const myComponent = <MyComponent data={{loading: true}} />;
  ```
