README.md, before:

# stylelint-config-shopify
[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/Shopify/stylelint-config-shopify.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/Shopify/stylelint-config-shopify)
[![David-DM](https://david-dm.org/shopify/stylelint-config-shopify.svg)](https://david-dm.org/Shopify/stylelint-config-shopify)

Shopify's stylelint rules and config

## Installation

Install [stylelint](https://stylelint.io/) and `stylelint-config-shopify`:

**With Yarn**
```
yarn add --dev stylelint stylelint-config-shopify
```

**With npm**
```
npm install stylelint stylelint-config-shopify --save-dev
```


## Usage
Shopify’s stylelint rules come bundled in `stylelint-config-shopify`. To enable these rules, add a `stylelint` property in your `package.json`. See the [stylelint configuration docs](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/configuration/) for more details.
```
"stylelint": {
  "extends": ["stylelint-config-shopify"]
}
```

Now you can run stylelint by adding the following linting script to your `package.json`. See the [stylelint CLI docs](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/cli/) for more details.
```
"scripts": {
  "stylelint": "stylelint 'src/**/*.scss'"
}
```
Run it:

**With Yarn**
```
yarn run stylelint
```

**With npm**
```
npm run stylelint
```

## Prettier

This config also includes a prettier config which can be extended to format `.scss`.

Install [`prettier-stylelint-formatter`](https://github.com/ismail-syed/prettier-stylelint-formatter):

```
$ yarn add --dev prettier-stylelint-formatter
```

Extend the config in your `package.json`:

```json
"stylelint": {
  "extends": [
    "stylelint-config-shopify/prettier"
  ]
}
```

Add a prettier config in `package.json`:

```json
"prettier": {
  "singleQuote": true,
  "trailingComma": "es5",
  "bracketSpacing": false
}
```

Run `prettier-stylelint`:

```
prettier-stylelint **/*.scss
```

Commit message:

Use latest version of stylelint formatter and update docs
* Update pretter integration instructions
* Add changelog entry

README.md, after:

# stylelint-config-shopify
[![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/Shopify/stylelint-config-shopify.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/Shopify/stylelint-config-shopify)
[![David-DM](https://david-dm.org/shopify/stylelint-config-shopify.svg)](https://david-dm.org/Shopify/stylelint-config-shopify)

Shopify's stylelint rules and config

## Installation

Install [stylelint](https://stylelint.io/) and `stylelint-config-shopify`:

**With Yarn**
```
yarn add --dev stylelint stylelint-config-shopify
```

**With npm**
```
npm install stylelint stylelint-config-shopify --save-dev
```


## Usage
Shopify’s stylelint rules come bundled in `stylelint-config-shopify`. To enable these rules, add a `stylelint` property in your `package.json`. See the [stylelint configuration docs](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/configuration/) for more details.
```
"stylelint": {
  "extends": ["stylelint-config-shopify"]
}
```

Now you can run stylelint by adding the following linting script to your `package.json`. See the [stylelint CLI docs](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/cli/) for more details.
```
"scripts": {
  "stylelint": "stylelint 'src/**/*.scss'"
}
```
Run it:

**With Yarn**
```
yarn run stylelint
```

**With npm**
```
npm run stylelint
```

## Prettier

This config also includes a prettier config which can be extended to format `.scss`.
Using the `stylelint-prettier` plugin, prettier changes are exposed as stylelint rule violations.

Install [`prettier`](https://github.com/prettier/prettier):

```
$ yarn add --dev prettier
```

Extend the config in your `package.json`:

```json
"stylelint": {
  "extends": [
    "stylelint-config-shopify/prettier"
  ]
}
```

Add a prettier config in `package.json`:

```json
"prettier": {
  "singleQuote": true,
  "trailingComma": "es5",
  "bracketSpacing": false
}
```
